Refine Habit Tracker + Trends integration + standardize app summaries and typography

Keep everything else the same from the prior instructions, with these refinements included:

1. Habit Tracker data must feed into the Trends tab

The Habit Tracker should not live on its own. Its tracked metrics must feed directly into the Trends tab over time.

Specifically, the Trends tab should reflect the same core Habit Tracker stats, including:

Weekly completion %
Current day streak
Today completed count such as 0/5 today
Top habit consistency

So if the Habit Tracker shows:

0% weekly
0 day streak
0/5 today

those are not just front-end display numbers. They must be backed by stored historical habit completion data and be usable in trends, summaries, and insights.

2. Keep habits binary only

All habits should remain binary only:

completed = true/false
no quantity-based habits
no units
no partial progress logic

Use the same simplified habit model:

type HabitLog = {
  userId: string;
  habitId: string;
  date: string; // YYYY-MM-DD
  completed: boolean;
  source: "user_manual";
  completedAt?: string;
};
3. Habit Tracker stats should be real and synced everywhere

Make sure these Habit Tracker metrics are computed from actual stored data:

Weekly %
completed habit check-ins this week / total scheduled this week
Day streak
current consecutive day streak based on completion logic
Today
number of completed habits today / number of scheduled habits today
Top habit consistency
the most consistently completed active habit over the selected recent window

If a user checks off a habit, edits a habit, archives a habit, or changes anything in the Habit Tracker, the Trends tab should update accordingly.

No fake placeholders.
No stale UI.
No disconnected numbers.

4. Trends tab should stay visually simplified

On the Trends tab, keep the page focused and avoid overload.

New rule:

Top = short summary
Middle = 3 to 5 key insights max
Bottom = compact key metrics only

Do not spread too many detailed stats throughout the page.

5. Trends tab layout
Section 1: Recent Trends

Keep this clean and spaced out.

Use a short summary that combines:

recovery
activity
habits

Example:

“Your recovery is holding steady, but habit consistency dipped this week.”
“Movement has been strong, and your habit adherence is improving.”

Keep this to 2 to 4 sentences max.

Section 2: Key Insights

Show only 3 to 5 insights max.

These should be sharp, high-signal insights such as:

“You completed 4 of 5 habits today”
“Your habit consistency is down versus last week”
“You’ve missed habits 3 days in a row”
“Recovery tends to be stronger during weeks with better habit adherence”

Do not overload this section.

Section 3: Key Metrics

Put the detailed stats at the bottom only.

Only show three metrics under each category so the page stays focused and premium.

Recovery / Body

Show exactly these 3 metrics:

Sleep 7-day average
HRV if available
Resting heart rate
Activity

Show exactly these 3 metrics:

Steps 7-day average
Workouts per week
Active minutes or equivalent activity volume metric
Habits

Show exactly these 3 metrics:

Weekly completion %
Current day streak
Today completed count

Do not show extra detailed habit metrics in the main bottom grid beyond those three.

Top habit consistency should still be used in logic, summaries, and insights, but it does not need to appear as a fourth metric card in the bottom section unless used as one of the rotating insights.

This bottom section should be the only place where multiple detailed metrics live. Keep it compact and visually lighter.

6. Standardize fonts across all tabs

Standardize the typography system across the entire app.

Right now, the Week Overview section appears visually different from the Trends Summary and Viva Coach sections. Fix that so the app feels like one cohesive product.

Apply one consistent type system across:

Today tab
Plan tab
Trends tab
Viva Coach
Week Overview
Weekly Summary
Habit Tracker
onboarding summaries
any AI-generated summary blocks

Standardize:

font family
header size
subheader size
body text size
line height
font weight
spacing between headings and paragraphs

Use the same visual hierarchy for:

section titles
summary text
insight text
helper text

The goal is that Week Overview, Trends Summary, and Viva Coach all feel like they belong to the same design system, not like different components built separately.

7. Make all text summaries more data-referenced but still easy to understand

Across the app, all summary text should feel more grounded in user data.

Do not make summaries vague, generic, or overly fluffy.

Instead, summaries should:

reference actual patterns in the user’s data
sound intelligent and credible
stay easy to understand
avoid sounding too technical or robotic
avoid medical language unless necessary

Examples of the right style:

“Your sleep averaged 7.4 hours this week, and your resting heart rate stayed stable, which supports a solid recovery trend.”
“You were more active than usual this week, but lower habit completion may be limiting recovery.”
“Your HRV held steady while workouts increased, which suggests your training load is staying manageable.”
“You completed 4 of 5 habits today, and your weekly consistency is trending up.”

Bad style to avoid:

generic motivational filler
overly abstract observations
summaries that make claims without referring to actual data
summaries that read like a search engine or generic AI output

The tone should be:

concise
warm
professional
coach-like
data-aware
easy for a normal user to understand quickly
8. Break up all long summary blocks into readable chunks

Do not render AI summaries as one long dense paragraph.

This is especially important for:

Weekly Summary
Week Overview
Trends Summary
Viva Coach responses
any longer insight or recap modules

Break longer summaries into clean chunks such as:

short paragraphs
grouped bullets if appropriate
separate cards or stacked sections
1 to 2 idea blocks per paragraph

For the Weekly Summary specifically:

split it into readable sections instead of one text wall
make it easy to scan
create natural breaks between recovery, activity, habits, and recommendations

For example, the Weekly Summary could be chunked into:

Recovery
Activity
Habits
What to focus on next

Do not make it visually busy, but do make it easier to read than a single large text block.

9. Habit Tracker data should influence trends without cluttering the page

Use habit data in:

trends summary
key insights
coach logic
weekly planning
weekly summary

But do not turn the Trends tab into a giant dashboard.

The habit data should make the app smarter, not busier.

10. Avoid redundancy across the Trends tab and summary modules

Make sure:

the summary does not repeat exact metrics
the insights do not repeat the summary
the key metrics section does not restate insight text
the Weekly Summary does not just restate the Trends Summary word for word

Each layer should have a distinct job:

Summary = narrative
Insights = most important takeaways
Key Metrics = raw support numbers
Weekly Summary = broader recap + what matters next
11. Spacing and presentation

Keep the same cleaner spacing approach across the app:

more white space between sections
readable line height
no cramped text
consistent card padding
consistent spacing between chunked summary blocks

The app should feel premium, clean, and easy to scan.

Priority areas:

Trends summary
Week Overview
Weekly Summary
Viva Coach responses
12. Summary generation rules across the app

For all AI-generated text summaries in the app, use these rules:

reference actual user inputs, wearable data, and habit history when available
explain patterns in plain English
keep summaries concise
avoid repeating the same insight in multiple places
use specifics where possible
stay encouraging, but grounded
do not overstate certainty
if data is limited, acknowledge that lightly and still be useful

Examples:

“Your data suggests recovery is stable, though slightly lower sleep consistency may be worth watching.”
“Based on your recent steps, workouts, and habits, you’re maintaining good momentum this week.”
“Your routine looks solid overall, but missed habits may be starting to show up in recovery.”
13. QA requirements

Test the following:

User completes habits for several days and Trends reflects it
User misses habits and weekly % drops correctly
Day streak updates correctly
Today completed count updates correctly
Trends summary uses habit data
Key insights use habit patterns
Detailed metrics only appear at the bottom
Only 3 metrics appear under each category
Fonts and type hierarchy are consistent across tabs
Week Overview, Trends Summary, and Viva Coach look visually aligned
Weekly Summary is chunked into readable sections instead of one text wall
Summaries reference real user data where available
Summaries stay easy to understand and not overly technical
No repeated or excessive data across the page
Habit edits and archived habits sync correctly
14. Product goal

The goal is:

Habit Tracker stats are real and persistent
Habit data feeds into Trends
The Trends tab stays focused and premium
Detailed metrics live at the bottom only
Only 3 metrics appear under each category
Typography feels standardized across the whole app
Summaries feel data-referenced, credible, and easy to understand
Weekly summaries are chunked and readable
The page emphasizes signal over noise

So users should understand:

how they’re doing
how their habits are trending
what matters most
what to focus on next

without the app feeling overloaded or inconsistent.