Why this is confusing

You’ve had multiple separate failures stacked on top of each other:

package manager / pnpm workspace issue
build number reuse issue
now native iOS pod install issue
only after that do we get to actual HealthKit runtime behavior

So your confusion is justified. The errors are changing because you are actually moving forward.

Most likely causes of this specific failure

Based on where it’s failing now, the top suspects are:

A. Pod cache / native dependency mismatch

Expo has documented iOS build failures caused by cached pod versions not matching current native package requirements, especially after changing Expo SDK or native libraries. One standard fix is to invalidate the EAS cache with a new cache.key in eas.json.

B. react-native-health pod integration issue

If the plugin or package is present but the podspec/native config does not line up with your RN/Expo environment, pod install can fail before compile. There are also active compatibility issues around newer React Native architecture behavior with react-native-health, which is why disabling New Architecture was a reasonable move.

C. Monorepo/workspace native resolution weirdness

You already fixed the npm vs pnpm piece, but monorepos can still break native install/build if workspace dependencies or pod-related scripts don’t resolve the way EAS expects. Expo’s monorepo docs explicitly call out that monorepos can need extra build setup.

Two things I would do immediately, even before the detailed log
Add a fresh EAS cache key

In eas.json, under the failing profile, add:

"cache": {
  "key": "ios-healthkit-debug-1"
}

If it fails again later, bump to ios-healthkit-debug-2.

This is a legit fix path for native dependency / pod mismatch cases on EAS.

Keep newArchEnabled: false

Do not undo that yet. There are still known issues around newer RN architecture behavior and third-party native modules.

Exact prompt to give Replit Agent right now

Paste this exactly:

We are no longer debugging runtime HealthKit auth. The current blocker is the iOS native build failing in the Install pods phase on EAS.

Do the following exactly:

1. Open the latest failed EAS build logs and identify the FIRST actual error inside:
   - Install pods
   - or the immediately following native iOS build phase if pod install forwarded the error there

2. Copy the first 40-80 lines around that first real error into your response.

3. Do not summarize vaguely. I need the exact failing pod, script, or dependency.

4. Check whether eas.json should add a cache key to invalidate stale pod/native caches:
   "cache": { "key": "ios-healthkit-debug-1" }

5. Verify that app.json still has:
   - newArchEnabled: false
   - only the official react-native-health config plugin
   - no duplicate manual HealthKit entitlements or infoPlist HealthKit keys

6. Tell me whether react-native-health is installed in the app package.json dependencies and whether any workspace/dev dependency could still be affecting pod resolution.

7. If there is a podspec or CocoaPods version mismatch, tell me the exact file and exact change needed.

Do not say “compiles cleanly” or “ready for build” unless you have the real failing pod log and have addressed it.
Then rebuild like this

After the cache key is added and committed:

git add .
git commit -m "Invalidate EAS cache for iOS pod debugging"
eas build --platform ios --profile production --clear-cache
My blunt read

You’re close, but you’re still treating each new error like it’s the same problem. It isn’t.

Right now the priority is:
get the exact pod error
then
fix that native install issue
then
rebuild
then
test HealthKit runtime